[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: Now that we've got
now the moco 101 out of the way,
let's actually go write real test for
react cuz that's
actually what I wanted to talk about.
>> Brian Holt: No,
it's up.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So we're gonna pull in
React as well.
>> Brian Holt: You already have expect.
We're gonna pull in search cuz that's
actually what we're gonna be running
our tests against.
That's gonna be ../js/Search.
We're gonna pull in an enzyme
out of a testing helper
and actually we're just gonna
pull shallow out of it right now.
So it's gonna be shallow
>> Brian Holt: Enzyme
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
we're gonna get rid of our totally
worthless tests right here.
And we're gonna say should
render the brand, right?
So for example,
say you were doing something in for
whatever reason it started dropping like
you're branding from the page like that's
a really bad thing that you don't
wanna drop your brand from the page.
So after that happened
maybe we'd go in and
write a test to make sure that this is
always definitely rendering the brand
every single time you're into the page and
this markup is showing up on the page.
So let's go ahead and
make a test that does that.
So we're gonna say const
wrapper = shallow(search).
So what this is gonna do, let's see,
I'll just walk over to search and
show you what's gonna happen here.
So what shallow rendering is gonna do is
it's going to render just what's in search
and none of it's children.
So basically,
we have a bunch of show cards here.
It's not actually going to reach into
show cards and render that as well.
It's all gonna render the stuff that
actually exists inside of search.
Is that makes sense?
Now the reason why we want to do this,
in this particular case we're actually,
we want to test search, right?
And then later we'll test
show cards separately, right?
But we wanna find problems with search and
we don't want our search test to fail when
it's actually a show card failing, right?
One of the useful part of tests is
what we want to tell us exactly what's
going wrong where it right.
And so far if our search tests fail
when it's really show cards failing.
That's like misleading, right?
We're gonna go dive into search first
when we really should be diving into
show cards.
We follow, that make sense?
So what it's gonna is actually in a set
like give us stubs, instead of show, yeah.
Instead of actually what it should be.
>> Brian Holt: So
let's go see how we would test that.
I'm gonna say expect(wrapper.contains) and
then I'm gonna just write some jsx here.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
So, I think this is
pretty straightforward.
This wrapper which is what's coming
back from enzyme or that is right there.
It has a method called contains and
basically I'm gonna say I'm gonna give it
jsx component like I expect this
to be in there somewhere, right?
I don't care like really care where,
what is important to me,
because I might move the brand
to be somewhere else, right?
But I don't want my unit tests to fail
because it is actually still in there,
right?
>> Speaker 2: Question,
can you explain shallow again?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
So there's a couple different
depth of rendering,
and I think we actually
do touch all of them.
So yeah, we'll talk about all the
different depths of rendering you can do.
But the basic gist is it's going to
render like this div, the header,
the H1, but it's going to get
down here to the show cards, and
it's just going to give us the stub, where
it's going to say, this is a show card.
But I'm not actually going to go into show
cards and render everything in there.
So it's shallow in the sense that
it renders just that component and
none of its children.
It just gives you stubs for
all the children.
That's the gist of it.
Why is this advantageous as well?
This is way faster.
It's like ten times faster than trying
to render all the children, right?
That's another big advantage of this.
>> Brian Holt: And
just a problem with testing
react components in general is
they're pretty slow to test.
>> Brian Holt: So yeah,
that's the gist of it.
Any questions about this
expectation right here?
Hopefully that makes sense
of what we're testing here.
Right, so we're basically testing,
does this end up getting rendered, right?
That's over testing here.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
So let's save that and let's try it.
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Brian Holt: So yeah,
the reason why I didn't make a jsx
because mocha is looking for JS files.
And it just makes it minorly more
complicated if you call it JSX,
and I didn't find that worth it.
>> Speaker 3: Do you need your actual
components to be JSX?
>> Brian Holt: Do I need
the components to be JSX?
They don't have They don't have to be,
they can be JS files.
>> Brian Holt: But
I get like it's no longer advantageous to
me to call this JSX in the sense of like,
this is never getting sent down to
the server this is only ever being run.
I'm sorry this is never getting
sent down to the client.
This is only ever being
rendered server side for
my debugging purposes.
>> Brian Holt: At personal preference,
it that's the bottom line here right?
Up to you.
If you want if you
really feel strongly about that then
you can go ahead and go do that.
You just have to wrangle with
Mocha to get it to work.
So what I'm gonna do here is
I'm going to run MPM test.
>> Brian Holt: And it passes.
So let's go make it fail.
Go to search and changes to be
like LOL something else, right?
[INAUDIBLE] Just so it's incorrect now.
>> Brian Holt: And
you can run an NPMT right?
That's the same as NPM Test
>> Brian Holt: And
now you can see that it's no
longer rendering the brand.
So it fails when they expected to.
>> Brian Holt: Questions
about that?
>> Speaker 2: There's a question on what's
your philosophy on what is and
what is not worth unit testing.
>> Brian Holt: But
I'll reserve my judgments for the end.
I have, like I said,
unpopular opinions on the subject.
>> Speaker 4: Can
you customize the assertion there so
that instead of saying expected
false forgot true you say expected
as video forgot false or something?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, I think the answer to
that question is yes, but
I cant remember of the top of my head.
Yeah I mean that's not
superuser it false to be
true.
>> Brian Holt: So,
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, there's probably
things you can do better than that.
In this particular case it's gonna be hard
to get like what actually happened, right?
Because you have to separate this out.
>> Brian Holt: So
that's a little bit more difficult to get.
Okay.
Good question though.
Hopefully, you'll make
this sufficiently explain,
that's the point of that is to be
more explaining what that does.
Wanted to show you this as well.
I think this works.
I think wrapper.debug,
>> Brian Holt: Let's see if that works.
It might not work.
There's basically you can have
a dump out all of its information.
Cool.
So now it actually does, it dumps
out everything that it got, right?
So you have the div, the class name you
can actually see the HTML that's being
rendered inside the shallow.
Render, but
here's the interesting part to me.
Notice it's actually giving
you these show cards and
it is telling what props
are getting passed down, right?
Which is kind of interesting, right?
But notice is not actually the actual
HTML from the show card, right?
This is actually still
a shallow rendering of it.
So this is what I mean when it's a shallow
render cuz it's putting show card instead
of the actual HTML that show
card would typically render.
So that's a useful thing if you're like
unit test or not working the way you
expect them to and you can actually dump
out this to bug and see what's going on.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: There's a question, so
shallow means that we will
not render any my guess of
the show card in I guess it's
harder in the chat here.
I'll have and clarified I went but the
other question was Is it possible to test
for a partial match like testing if I have
a H1 without having to match all the class
name?
>> Brian Holt: Probably?
[LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: I wonder if you
could do something like this.
>> Brian Holt: The answer
is I'm not entirely sure.
But let's give it a shot and
see what happens.
>> Brian Holt: Nope.
It doesn't work.
There might be another way to do it.
I'm just unaware of what
that is at this moment.
So if you're interested in that I'd say go
check out the enzyme docs and see if you
find some clever way to do that.
>> Brian Holt: Other
questions?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah I actually have
a question Is contains part of
enzymes there is a part of MOCA.
>> Brian Holt: Enzyme, good question.